.Dd February 20, 2022
.Dt DCMP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dcmp
.Nd compare two directories, deduplicating if needed
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -dedup
.Op Fl h|--nosymlinks
.Op Fl s|--silent|--quiet
.Op Fl v|--verbose
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Fl -help|-?
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -
.Ar directory1
.Ar directory2
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility compares two directories contents and writes the results to the standard output.
By default,
.Nm
is silent if the directories are the same; if they differ, the differences are reported with a leading:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It !
if files contents are different
.It +
if the file or directory appears in directory1 but not in directory2
.It -
if the file or directory appears in directory2 but not in directory1
.It =
if the files contents are identical and you used the
.Fl v|--verbose
option
.El
.Pp
If you use the
.Fl s|--silent|--quiet
option, differences won't be reported and the overall result will be returned though the exit status (thus stopping the comparison at the first difference).
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
follows symlinks to directories, unless you tell it not to do so with the
.Fl h|--nosymlinks
option, or you use the
.Fl -dedup
option for deduplicating the
.Em first
directory, removing identical files and empty directories sitting there.
.Ss OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Pp
.Op Fl -dedup
In dir1, remove empty dirs and files which are identical to those in dir2
.Pp
.Op Fl h|--nosymlinks
Do not follow symlinks
.Pp
.Op Fl s|--silent|--quiet
Print nothing for differing dirs; return exit status only
.Pp
.Op Fl v|--verbose
Print identical dirs and files names
.Pp
.Op Fl -debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.Op Fl -help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -
Options processing terminator
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev DCMP_DEBUG
environment variable can also be set to any value to enable debug mode.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits with one of the following values:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It 0
The directories are identical
.It 1
The directories are different
.It >1
An error occurred
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cmp 1 ,
.Xr sha256 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is not a standard UNIX command.
.Pp
This implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
This implementation was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility was made to help spot potential differences between restored backups and current files and directories.
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
